Neural Networks for the Publishing Industry: Enhancing Customer Experience and Sales Objective: In this project, the objective is to predict customer churn behaviour based on various features like loyalty, inactive days, order count, price, order date. We will use the dataset given. This dataset contains information about the books, clients and orders. Project Scope: We have historical data on book orders and customer, including various features such as loyalty, inactive days, order count, price, order date and other relevant attributes from different cities and countries. Our task as a data scientist is to develop a deep learning model that can accurately predict the customer churn behaviour based on these features. The model should be integrated into a Streamlit-based web application to allow users to input customer details and receive prediction instantly.

Tools Python, Pandas(Library), numpy, sklearn, seaborn, matplotlib.pyplot, joblib Approach Python: The core programming language used for scripting and data processing. Pandas: A data manipulation and analysis library. Numpy: A library for the Python programming language, adding support for large, multi-dimensional arrays and matrices, along with a large collection of high-level mathematical functions to operate on these arrays. Sklearn: A free and open-source machine learning library for the Python programming language Seaborn: A Python data visualization library based on matplotlib. It provides a high-level interface for drawing attractive and informative statistical graphics. matplotlib.pyplot : A state-based interface to matplotlib. It provides an implicit, MATLAB-like, way of plotting. It also opens figures on your screen, and acts as the figure GUI manager. joblib: A Python library for running computationally intensive tasks in parallel.

Findings--> Higher the loyalty lower the churn People with less orders have churned churn quality is evenly distributed for all years

******Streamlit application link: **** https://durga-r-m-final-project-publishingindustry-final-project-1b6qyt.streamlit.app/

Final application URL after aws deployment http://3.109.158.158:8501/

LinkedIn Post URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/durgarmanikandan_final-project-demo-on-customer-churn-prediction-activity-7279020820276912128-_sZ5?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop# Churn-prediction
